RLO exposure and sampling
Black abalone, Haliotis cracherodii, (mean shell length = 51.24 mm) from Carmel, California, USA (n = 18) were collected in 2006 and transported to the University of Washington’s Pathogen Containment Facility in Seattle, WA, USA. Abalone were treated with oxytetracycline (OTC) via a 12% TM-100 medicated feed (Phibro Animal Health Corp., Teaneck, NJ, USA) to eliminate any pre-existing RLO infections and allowed to deplete the antibiotic until digestive gland OTC levels were < 10 ppm, a level shown to allow re-infection by the RLO (Friedman et al. 2003). For the duration of the experiment abalone were held in recirculating seawater systems at 19°C, a temperature known to augment RLO transmission and induce WS development (Tissot 1995, Friedman et al. 1997, 2002), and allowed daily access to macroalgae. 
Abalone (n = 9) were exposed to the RLO for 60 days via effluent from a head tank housing RLO infected red abalone, providing an equivalent dose of the non-culturable pathogen to each tank. Control animals (n = 9), held under identical conditions, were exposed to effluent from uninfected red abalone. After 60 days of exposure, red abalone head tanks were removed and black abalone held under constant conditions for 14 months. Upon termination, digestive gland tissues were aseptically excised and stored at -80°C for transcriptomic analyses. All abalone used in the experiment were confirmed infected or uninfected by histology and PCR (Andree et al. 2000).

RNA isolation and library construction 
Total RNA was isolated from digestive gland tissue samples (~20 mg) from RLO exposed (n = 9) and control abalone (n = 9), using a RNA PowerSoil Total RNA Isolation Kit (MoBio Laboratories Inc., Carlsbad, CA, USA). Total RNA was treated with TURBO DNAfree (Life Technologies, Grand Island, NY, USA) according to the manufacturer’s “rigorous” protocol to remove possible genomic DNA carry over. Treated RNA samples were quantified and the removal of genomic DNA was PCR verified. Equal quantities (5 ug) of total RNA from each sample were pooled from the exposed and control treatments. mRNA was isolated from the two pooled samples (RLO exposed and control) with the MicroPolyA Purist Kit (Life Technologies) according to the manufacturer’s protocol. RNA-Seq libraries were constructed using the Whole Transcriptome Analysis Kit (Life Technologies). Briefly, samples were fragmented with RNase III and ribosomal RNA was removed using the Ribominus Concentration Module (Life Technologies). Fragmented mRNA was run on an Agilent Bioanalyzer 2100 using RNA Pico chips/reagents according to the manufacturer’s protocol to verify successful fragmentation (Agilent Technologies, Inc., Santa Clara, CA, USA). The fragmented RNA was then prepared using Adaptor Mix A (for sequencing from the 5’ end) and reverse transcribed. The resulting cDNA was size selected (100-200 bp range) on a Novex 6% TBE-Urea Gel (Life Technologies). In-gel PCR was performed and the amplified DNA was purified using the PureLink PCR Micro Kit (Life Technologies). Yield and size distribution of the amplified DNA was evaluated with DNA 1000 chips on the Bioanalyzer 2100 (Agilent Technologies, Inc.). Templated beads for all libraries were prepared with a 1.5 pM concentration of each library, following the “Full-Scale” protocol in the SOLiD3 Plus System Templated Bead Preparation Guide October 2009 (Life Technologies). Templated bead quality was verified with a workflow analysis run on the SOLiD3 and then sequenced on the SOLiD3 System (Life Technologies).

Sequence Analysis